#summary FAQ-Alternative Pathway Resources

==_Can GO-Elite analyze other pathway archives, such as KEGG or Reactome?_==

_*Answer*_: In addition to WikiPathways, GO-Elite can accept almost any other pathway resource for analysis in addition to or in place of WikiPathways. These pathways can be imported using the following formats: 1) GPML, 2) BioPax, 3) BroadInstitute GMT or 4) tab-delimited text file pathway relationships. All of these additional options are currently available in the Stand-Alone versions of GO-Elite (not the web service or Cytoscape plugin). 

=== KEGG ===

KEGG can be imported as KEGG GPML files provided by PathVisio [http://www.pathvisio.org] (go to Downloads and allow the Java installer to download the associated pathway archives). These pathways were imported from the KEGG XML data prior to that standard
becoming closed source. These files will be saved to your user directory
under "PathVisio-Data"). These gpml files can be loaded into GO-Elite along with the default loaded WikiPathways to get combined enrichment results ("Custom Gene Set directory" option). 

You can optionally replace WikiPathways with KEGG using the customizable database options. After downloading the KEGG gpml archive from PathVisio's website, to get the flat-file of relationships needed to
replace WikiPathways, you will need to select the directory lowest sub-directory of the PathVisio-pathway folder using the "Custom Gene Set directory" option, run with any input and denominator data (not important which data) and then look in that sub-directory for a new folder containing the Ensembl or EntrezGene relationships to KEGG pathway. Inside will be the file custom_gene_set.txt file containing the KEGG relationships to either Ensembl or EntrezGene. You will then replace the WikiPathways relationship file. This is easiest to do manually by opening the GO-Elite program directory >Directory > EnsMart62 > Hs > gene-MAPP and replace the file Ensembl-MAPP.txt with the custom_gene_set.txt created.