#summary Articles Citing AltAnalyze
#labels Featured

=== Articles Citing AltAnalyze ===

http://www.nature.com/ncomms/2015/150330/ncomms7410/full/ncomms7410.html

http://www.nature.com/nm/journal/vaop/ncurrent/full/nm.3848.html

http://bio.biologists.org/content/early/2015/01/23/bio.20149969.full

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25579607 Identification of rod- and cone-specific expression signatures to identify candidate genes for retinal disease]. Holt R, Brown L, Broadgate S, Butler R, Jagannath A, Downes S, Peirson S, Halford S.Exp Eye Res. 2015 Mar;132:161-73.

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25720307 SplicingTypesAnno: Annotating and quantifying alternative splicing events for RNA-Seq data]. Sun X, Zuo F, Ru Y, Guo J, Yan X, Sablok G.Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 2015 Apr;119(1):53-62.

[http://hmg.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2015/03/03/hmg.ddv039.abstract Transcription-coupled RNA surveillance in human genetic diseases caused by splice site mutations]. Vaz-Drago R, Pinheiro MT, Martins S, Enguita FJ, Carmo-Fonseca M, Custódio N.Hum Mol Genet. 2015 Feb 4. pii: ddv039.

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/m/pubmed/25590811/ Reactive oxygen species-mediated therapeutic response and resistance in glioblastoma]. Singer E, Judkins J, Salomonis N, Matlaf L, Soteropoulos P, McAllister S, Soroceanu L.Cell Death Dis. 2015 Jan 15;6:e1601.

[http://m.bio.biologists.org/content/early/2015/01/23/bio.20149969.full Identification of novel radiation-induced p53-dependent transcripts extensively regulated during mouse brain development]. Quintens R, Verreet T, Janssen A, Neefs M, Leysen L, Michaux A, Verslegers M, Samari N, Pani G, Verheyde J, Baatout S, Benotmane MA.Biol Open. 2015 Feb 13;4(3):331-44.

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25720307 A survey of computational methods in transcriptome-wide alternative splicing analysis.Wang J, Ye Z, Huang TH, Shi H, Jin V]. Biomol Concepts. 2015 Mar 1;6(1):59-66.

[http://www.biomedcentral.com/1756-0500/7/934/abstract Computational extraction of a neural molecular network through alternative splicing]. Alam S, Phan HT, Okazaki M, Takagi M, Kawahara K, Tsukahara T, Suzuki H.BMC Res Notes. 2014 Dec 19;7:934. 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25590302

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25612620 ATF4 Gene Network Mediates Cellular Response to the Anticancer PAD Inhibitor YW3-56 in Triple Negative Breast Cancer Cells]. Wang S, Chen XA, Hu J, Jiang JK, Li Y, Chen-Salis KY, Gu Y, Chen G, Thomas C, Pugh BF, Wang Y.Mol Cancer Ther. 2015 Jan 22. 

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25590302 Novel transcription factor variants through RNA-sequencing: the importance of being "alternative"]. Scarpato M, Federico A, Ciccodicola A, Costa V.Int J Mol Sci. 2015 Jan 13;16(1):1755-71.

[http://www.biomedcentral.com/1755-8794/7/63/abstract Integrated differential transcriptome maps of Acute Megakaryoblastic Leukemia (AMKL) in children with or without Down Syndrome (DS)]. Pelleri M, Piovesan A, Caracausi M, Berardi A, Vitale L, Strippoli P. BMC Med Genomics. 2014 Dec 5;7(1):63.

[http://m.pnas.org/content/early/2014/11/19/1412172111.short?view=short&uritype=cgi ELAVL1 regulates alternative splicing of eIF4E transporter to promote postnatal angiogenesis]. Chang SH, Elemento O, Zhang J, Zhuang ZW, Simons M, Hla T.Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Dec 23;111(51):18309-14.

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24865429 Splicing regulator SLU7 is essential for maintaining liver homeostasis]. Elizalde M, Urtasun R, Azkona M, Latasa MU, Goñi S, García-Irigoyen O, Uriarte I, Segura V, Collantes M, Di Scala M, Lujambio A, Prieto J, Ávila MA, Berasain C.J Clin Invest. 2014 Jul;124(7):2909-20. 

[http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0110134 Integrated exon level expression analysis of driver genes explain their role in colorectal cancer]. Aziz MA, Periyasamy S, Al Yousef Z, AlAbdulkarim I, Al Otaibi M, Alfahed A, Alasiri G.PLoS One. 2014 Oct 21;9(10):e110134.

[http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10048-014-0419-8 A quantitative transcriptome reference map of the normal human brain]. Caracausi M, Vitale L, Pelleri MC, Piovesan A, Bruno S, Strippoli P.Neurogenetics. 2014 Oct;15(4):267-87.

[http://www.plosone.org/article/comments/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0109631 Urinary exosomes: a novel means to non-invasively assess changes in renal gene and protein expression]. Spanu S, van Roeyen CR, Denecke B, Floege J, Mühlfeld AS.PLoS One. 2014 Oct 13;9(10):e109631. 

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25122876 ABCG2pos Lung Mesenchymal Stem Cells are a Novel Pericyte Subpopulation that Contributes to Fibrotic Remodeling]. Marriott S, Baskir RS, Gaskill C, Menon S, Carrier EJ, Williams J, Talati M, Helm K, Alford CE, Kropski JA, Loyd J, Wheeler L, Johnson J, Austin E, Nozik-Grayck E, Meyrick BO, West JD, Klemm DJ, Majka SM. Am J Physiol Cell Physiol. 2014 Aug 13. pii: ajpcell.00114.2014.

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24964230 Systems-level perspective of sudden infant death syndrome]. Salomonis N. Pediatr Res. 2014 Jun 25. doi: 10.1038/pr.2014.90. 

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25058891 Transcriptome analysis in cardiomyocyte-specific differentiation of murine embryonic stem cells reveals transcriptional regulation network]. Gan L, Schwengberg S, Denecke B.
Gene Expr Patterns. 2014 Jul 21. pii: S1567-133X(14)00059-3. doi: 10.1016/j.gep.2014.07.002

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24850901 Hypoxia Regulates Alternative Splicing of HIF and non-HIF Target Genes]. Sena JA, Wang L, Heasley LE, Hu CJ. Mol Cancer Res. 2014 May 21. pii: molcanres.0149.2014.

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/m/pubmed/24937432/ Resident fibroblast lineages mediate pressure overload-induced cardiac fibrosis].  Moore-Morris T, Guimarães-Camboa N, Banerjee I, Zambon AC, Kisseleva T, Velayoudon A, Stallcup WB, Gu Y, Dalton ND, Cedenilla M, Gomez-Amaro R, Zhou B, Brenner DA, Peterson KL, Chen J, Evans SM. Journal Clin Invest. 2014 Jul 1;124(7):2921-34. doi: 10.1172/JCI74783. Epub 2014 Jun 17.

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24813856 Alternative Splicing of MBD2 Supports Self-Renewal in Human Pluripotent Stem Cells]. Lu Y, Loh YH, Li H, Cesana M, Ficarro SB, Parikh JR, Salomonis N, Toh CX, Andreadis ST, Luckey CJ, Collins JJ, Daley GQ, Marto JA. Cell Stem Cell. 2014 May 7

[http://jmcb.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2014/05/28/jmcb.mju026.full.pdf The conserved ubiquitin-like protein Hub1 plays a critical role in splicing in human cells]. Ammon, T., Mishra, S. K., Kowalska, K., Popowicz, G. M., Holak, T. A., & Jentsch, S. (2014).  Journal of molecular cell biology, mju026.
Chicago	

[http://nar.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2014/05/13/nar.gku299.full Genome-wide characterization reveals complex interplay between TP53 and TP63 in response to genotoxic stress]. McDade1 SS, Patel D, Moran M, Campbell J, Fenwick K, Kozarewa, Orr NJ, Lord CJ, Ashworth AA, McCance DJ. Nucl. Acids Res. first published online May 13, 2014

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24800817 Growth factor independence 1b (gfi1b) is important for the maturation of erythroid cells and the regulation of embryonic globin expression]. Vassen L, Beauchemin H, Lemsaddek W, Krongold J, Trudel M, Möröy T. PLoS One. 2014 May 6;9(5):e96636.

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24621103 MAAMD: a workflow to standardize meta-analyses and comparison of affymetrix microarray data]. Gan Z, Wang J, Salomonis N, Stowe JC, Haddad GG, McCulloch AD, Altintas I, Zambon AC. BMC Bioinformatics. 2014 Mar 12;15:69. doi: 10.1186/1471-2105-15-69.

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24651478 Long non-coding RNA and alternative splicing modulations in Parkinson's leukocytes identified by RNA sequencing]. Soreq L, Guffanti A, Salomonis N, Simchovitz A, Israel Z, Bergman H, Soreq H. PLoS Comput Biol. 2014 Mar 20;10(3):e1003517.

[http://www.nature.com/nsmb/journal/vaop/ncurrent/full/nsmb.2756.html Splicing factor SRSF6 promotes hyperplasia of sensitized skin]. Jensen MA, Wilkinson JE, Krainer AR. Nat Struct Mol Biol. 2014 Jan 19.

[http://www.humgenomics.com/content/8/1/3/abstract A survey of software for genome-wide discovery of differential splicing in RNA-Seq data]. Hooper JE. Human Genomics 2014, 8:3.

[http://www.mcponline.org/content/early/2013/12/12/mcp.M113.030577.long The Identification of Novel Potential Injury Mechanisms and Candidate Biomarkers in Renal Allograft Rejection by Quantitative Proteomics]. Sigdel TK, Salomonis N, Nicora CD, Ryu S, He J, Dinh V, Orton DJ, Moore RJ, Hsieh SC, Dai H, Thien-Vu M, Xiao W, Smith RD, Qian WJ, Camp DG 2nd, Sarwal MM. Mol Cell Proteomics. 2013 Dec 12. 

[http://orca.cf.ac.uk/47378/1/2013KNIGHTDJPhD.pdf PhD Thesis: Novel Schizophrenia Risk Genes and Gene Expression]. Deborah Knight. http://orca.cf.ac.uk/47378/1/2013KNIGHTDJPhD.pdf

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24265543 Altered gene expression in dry age-related macular degeneration suggests early loss of choroidal endothelial cells]. Whitmore SS, Braun TA, Skeie JM, Haas CM, Sohn EH, Stone EM, Scheetz TE, Mullins RF.  Mol Vis. 2013 Nov 16;19:2274-2297.

[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1574789113001440 An integrative framework identifies alternative splicing events in colorectal cancer development]. Andrea Bisognina, Silvia Pizzinib,Lisa Perillib, Giovanni Espositoc, Simone Mocellind, Donato Nittid, Paola Zanovellob, Stefania Bortoluzzia, Susanna Mandruzzato. Mol. Oncology. 2013. dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.molonc.2013.10.004

[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022283613005111 Towards Precision Medicine: Advances in Computational Approaches for the Analysis of Human Variants]. Peterson TA, Doughty E, Kann MG. J Mol Biol. 2013 Nov 1;425(21):4047-4063. 

[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0161589013004483 The zinc finger transcription factor ZXDC activates CCL2 gene expression by opposing BCL6-mediated repression]. Ramsey JE, Fontes JD. Mol Immunol. 2013 Dec 31;56(4):768-80.

[http://www.jneurosci.org/content/33/37/14825.long The Pattern of Cortical Dysfunction in a Mouse Model of a Schizophrenia-Related Microdeletion]. Fénelon K, Xu B, Lai CS, Mukai J, Markx S, Stark KL, Hsu PK, Gan WB, Fischbach GD, Macdermott AB, Karayiorgou M, Gogos JA. J Neurosci. 2013 Sep 11;33(37):14825-14839.

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/m/pubmed/23388157/ Ca2+/Calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II δ mediates myocardial ischemia/reperfusion injury through nuclear factor-κB]. Ling H, Gray CB, Zambon AC, Grimm M, Gu Y, Dalton N, Purcell NH, Peterson K, Brown JH.
Circ Res. 2013 Mar 15;112(6):935-44. doi: 10.1161/CIRCRESAHA.112.276915. Epub 2013 Feb 6.

[http://www.plosone.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0071143 Sarcoptes scabiei Mites Modulate Gene Expression in Human Skin Equivalents]. Morgan MS, Arlian LG, Markey MP.PLoS One. 2013 Aug 5;8(8):e71143.

[http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2164/14/478/abstract Deep brain stimulation modulates nonsense-mediated RNA decay in Parkinson's patients leukocytes]. Soreq L, Bergman H, Israel Z, Soreq H.
BMC Genomics. 2013 Jul 16;14(1):478

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23856522 Jmjd3 Controls Mesodermal and Cardiovascular Differentiation of Embryonic Stem Cells].
Ohtani K, Zhao C, Dobreva G, Manavski Y, Kluge B, Braun T, Rieger MA, Zeiher AM, Dimmeler S.
Circ Res. 2013 Jul 15.

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23862100 A robust method to derive functional neural crest cells from human pluripotent stem cells]. Kreitzer FR, Salomonis N, Sheehan A, Huang M, Park JS, Spindler MJ, Lizarraga P, Weiss WA, So PL, Conklin BR. Am J Stem Cells. 2013 Jun 30;2(2):119-31

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23782613 GPViz: dynamic visualization of genomic regions and variants affecting protein domains]. Snajder R, Trajanoski Z, Hackl H. Bioinformatics. 2013 Jul 5.

[http://www.nature.com/ncomms/2013/130614/ncomms2974/full/ncomms2974.html Model-based rational design of an oncolytic virus with improved therapeutic potential]. Le Boeuf F, Batenchuk C, Vähä-Koskela M, Breton S, Roy D, Lemay C, Cox J, Abdelbary H, Falls T, Waghray G, Atkins H, Stojdl D, Diallo JS, Kærn M, Bell JC. Nat Commun. 2013 Jun 14;4:1974.

[http://www.ingentaconnect.com/content/ben/cg/2013/00000014/00000003/art00004 Alternative Splicing (AS) of Genes As An Approach for Generating Protein Complexity]. Bishakha; M. Haupt, Larisa; R. Griffiths, Lyn. Current Genomics, Volume 14, Number 3, May 2013 , pp. 182-194(13).

[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0959440X13000432 The impact of splicing on protein domain architecture]. Light S, Elofsson A. Curr Opin Struct Biol. 2013 Apr 4

[http://www.frontiersin.org/Molecular_Neuroscience/10.3389/fnmol.2013.00010/abstract Small RNA sequencing-microarray analyses in Parkinson leukocytes reveal deep brain stimulation-induced splicing changes that classify brain region transcriptomes].Soreq L, Salomonis N, Bronstein M, Greenberg D, Israel Z, Bergman H and Soreq H. Front. Mol. Neurosci., 13 May 2013

[http://www.jimmunol.org/content/early/2013/05/17/jimmunol.1300434.abstract. Protective Role of the Inflammatory CCR2/CCL2 Chemokine Pathway through Recruitment of Type 1 Cytotoxic γδ T Lymphocytes to Tumor Beds]. Lança T, Costa MF, Gonçalves-Sousa N, Rei M, Grosso AR, Penido C, Silva-Santos B. J Immunol. 2013 May 17

[http://www.plosone.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0061975 Genome-Wide Analysis of Alternative Splicing during Dendritic Cell Response to a Bacterial Challenge].  Rodrigues R, Grosso AR, Moita L. PLoS One. 2013 Apr 17;8(4):e61975.

[http://rnajournal.cshlp.org/content/early/2013/03/01/rna.038042.112.abstract Global regulation of alternative splicing by adenosine deaminase acting on RNA (ADAR)]. Solomon O, Oren S, Safran M, Deshet-Unger N, Akiva P, Jacob-Hirsch J, Cesarkas K, Kabesa R, Amariglio N, Unger R, Rechavi G, Eyal E. RNA March 8, 2013.

[http://jem.rupress.org/content/early/2012/12/24/jem.20121044.abstract Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 regulates nuclear reprogramming and promotes iPSC generation without c-Myc]. Chiou SH, Jiang BH, Yu YL, Chou SJ, Tsai PH, Chang WC, Chen LK, Chen LH, Chien Y, Chiou GY. J Exp Med. 2012 Dec 31.

[http://m.jbc.org/content/early/2012/12/06/jbc.M112.423871 Antagonistic function of the RNA-binding protein HuR and miR-200b in post-transcriptional regulation of VEGF-A expression and angiogenesis]. Chang S, Lu Y, Li1 X, Hsieh WY, Xiong Y, Ghosh M, Evans T, Elemento O, Hla T. December 6, 2012, doi: 10.1074/jbc.M112.423871 jbc.M112.423871.

[http://www.plosone.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0049978 Contextualization Procedure and Modeling of Monocyte Specific TLR Signaling]. MK Aurich, I Thiele . PLoS ONE 7(12): e49978. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0049978

[http://ajblood.us/files/AJBR1210006.pdf Growth factor independence 1 (Gfi1) regulates cell-fate decision of a bipotential granulocytic-monocytic precursor defined by expression of Gfi1 and CD48]. Lothar Vassen1, Ulrich Dührsen, Christian Kosan, Hui Zeng, Tarik Möröy1. Am J Blood Res 2012;2(4):228-242

[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/pcmr.12011/full Fishing for melanoma markers through comparative transcriptome analysis]. Mione M, Armant O. Pigment Cell & Melanoma Research. 2012. doi: 10.1111/pcmr.12011

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23057549 KLF10 gene expression is associated with high fetal hemoglobin levels and with response to hydroxyurea treatment in β-hemoglobinopathy patients]. Borg J, Phylactides M, Bartsakoulia M, Tafrali C, Lederer C, Felice AE, Papachatzopoulou A, Kourakli A, Stavrou EF, Christou S, Hou J, Karkabouna S, Lappa-Manakou C, Ozgur Z, van Ijcken W, von Lindern M, Grosveld FG, Georgitsi M, Kleanthous M, Philipsen S, Patrinos GP.
Pharmacogenomics. 2012 Oct;13(13):1487-500.

[http://www.biotechniques.com/BiotechniquesJournal/2012/July/AMDA-2.13-A-major-update-for-automated-cross-platform-microarray-data-analysis/biotechniques-332870.html?pageNum=2 AMDA 2.13: A major update for automated cross-platform microarray data analysis]. Kapetis D, Clarelli F, Vitulli1 F, de Rosbo NK, Beretta O, Foti1 M, Ricciardi-Castagnoli P, and Zolezzi F. BioTechniques 53:33-40 ( July 2012) doi 10.2144/0000113889.

[http://bioinformatics.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2012/06/27/bioinformatics.bts366.abstract GO-Elite: A Flexible Solution for Pathway and Ontology Over-Representation]. Zambon AC, Gaj S, Ho I, Hanspers K, Vranizan K, Evelo CT, Conklin BR, Pico AR, Salomonis N. Bioinformatics. 2012 Jun 27.

[http://bioinformatics.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2012/05/29/bioinformatics.bts320.long AS-EAST: A functional annotation tool for putative proteins encoded by alternatively spliced transcripts]. Shionyu M, Takahashi KI, Go M. Bioinformatics. 2012 May 29.

[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/emmm.201100995/full Cholinergic-associated loss of hnRNP-A/B in Alzheimer's disease impairs cortical splicing and cognitive function in mice]. Berson A, Barbash S, Shaltiel G, Goll Y, Hanin G, Greenberg DS, Ketzef M, Becker AJ, Friedman A, Soreq H. EMBO Mol Med. doi: 10.1002/emmm.201100995 

[http://www.molvis.org/molvis/v18/a119/ Transcriptome analysis using next generation sequencing reveals molecular signatures of diabetic retinopathy and efficacy of candidate drugs]. Kandpal RP, Rajasimha HK, Brooks MJ, Nellissery J, Wan J, Qian J, Kern TS, Swaroop A. Molecular Vision 2012; 18:1123-1146

[http://www.plosgenetics.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pgen.1002649 Transcriptional Regulation of Rod Photoreceptor Homeostasis Revealed by In Vivo NRL Targetome Analysis]. Hao H, Kim DS, Klocke B, Johnson KR, Cui K, Gotoh N, Zang C, Gregorski J, Gieser L, Peng W, Fann Y, Seifert M, Zhao K, Swaroop A. PLoS Genet. 2012 Apr;8(4):e1002649

[http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2105/13/S4/S21 BEAT: Bioinformatics Exon Array Tool to store, analyze and visualize Affymetrix GeneChip Human Exon Array data from disease experiments]. Consiglio A, Carella M, Caro GD, Foglie GD, Giovannelli C, Grillo G, Ianigro M, Licciulli F, Palumbo O, Piepoli A, Ranieri E and Liuni S.  BMC Bioinformatics 2012, 13(Suppl 4):S21 doi:10.1186/1471-2105-13-S4-S21

[http://content.karger.com/produktedb/produkte.asp?doi=332598 Exon Arrays Reveal Alternative Splicing Aberrations in Parkinson’s Disease Leukocytes]. Lilach Soreq, Hagai Bergman, Zvi Israel, Hermona Soreq. Neurodegener Dis. 2011 Dec 9.

[http://jcs.biologists.org/content/early/2011/12/22/jcs.092239.short Son maintains accurate splicing for a subset of human pre-mRNAs].
Alok Sharma, Michael Markey, Keshia Torres-Muñoz, Sapna Varia, Madhavi Kadakia, Athanasios Bubulya and Paula A. Bubulya. J Cell Sci. 2011 Dec 22 doi: 10.1242/​jcs.092239

[http://nar.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2011/11/27/nar.gkr1110.full Gene Array Analyzer: alternative usage of gene arrays to study alternative splicing events]. Pascal Gellert, Mizue Teranishi, Katharina Jenniches, Piera De Gaspari, David John, Karsten grosse Kreymborg, Thomas Braun and Shizuka Uchida. Nucl. Acids Res. (2011) doi: 10.1093/nar/gkr1110

[http://www.nature.com/neuro/journal/vaop/ncurrent/full/nn.2959.html 5-hmC–mediated epigenetic dynamics during postnatal neurodevelopment and aging]. Keith E Szulwach, Xuekun Li, Yujing Li, Chun-Xiao Song, Hao Wu, Qing Dai, Hasan Irier, Anup K Upadhyay, Marla Gearing, Allan I Levey, Aparna Vasanthakumar, Lucy A Godley, Qiang Chang, Xiaodong Cheng, Chuan He & Peng Jin. Nature Neuroscience(2011) doi:10.1038/nn.2959 

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3186740/ Measuring and analyzing tissue specificity of human genes and protein complexes]. Dorothea Emig, Tim Kacprowski and Mario Albrecht. EURASIP J Bioinform Syst Biol. 2011(1): 5. 10.1186/1687-4153-2011-5

[http://www.jimmunol.org/content/187/5/2233.abstract MicroRNA regulation of molecular networks mapped by global microRNA, mRNA, and protein expression in activated T lymphocytes].
Grigoryev YA, Kurian SM, Hart T, Nakorchevsky AA, Chen C, Campbell D, Head SR, Yates JR 3rd, Salomon DR. J Immunol. 2011 Sep 1;187(5):2233-43. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1101233.

[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1097276511004217 Integrative Regulatory Mapping Indicates that the RNA-Binding Protein HuR Couples Pre-mRNA Processing and mRNA Stability]. Neelanjan Mukherjee, David L. Corcoran, Jeffrey D. Nusbaum, David W. Reid, Stoyan Georgiev, Markus Hafner, Manuel Ascano Jr., Thomas Tuschl, Uwe Ohler,  and Jack D. Keene. Mol Cell. 2011 Jun 29.

[http://nar.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2011/06/06/nar.gkr405.full Differentially regulated splice variants and systems biology analysis of Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus-infected lymphatic endothelial cells].Ting-Yu Chang, Yu-Hsuan Wu, Cheng-Chung Cheng and Hsei-Wei Wang. Nucl. Acids Res. (2011) doi: 10.1093/nar/gkr405.

[http://www.biomedcentral.com/1755-8794/4/35/abstract Exon array analysis reveals neuroblastoma tumors have distinct alternative splicing patterns according to stage and MYCN amplification status]. Xiang Guo, Qing-Rong Chen, Young K Song, Jun S Wei and Javed Khan. BMC Medical Genomics 2011, 4:35doi:10.1186/1755-8794-4-35.

[http://www.plosgenetics.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pgen.1001269 Quaking Regulates Hnrnpa1 Expression through Its 3′ UTR in Oligodendrocyte Precursor Cells]. N Ruth Zearfoss, Carina C Clingman, Brian M Farley, Lisa M McCoig, Sean P Ryder. PLoS Genetics: Research Article, published 06 Jan 2011 10.1371/journal.pgen.1001269.

[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ajmg.b.31062/abstract Analysis of whole genome biomarker expression in blood and brain]. Rollins B, Martin MV, Morgan L, Vawter MP. Am J Med Genet B Neuropsychiatr Genet. 2010 Jun 5;153B(4):919-36.

[http://www.landesbioscience.com/journals/cc/SalomonisCC9-16.pdf Stem cell pluripotency: alternative modes of transcription regulation]. Salomonis N, Conklin BR. Cell Cycle. 2010 Aug 15;9(16):3133-4. Epub 2010 Aug 2.

[http://www.plosone.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0007780 Gi-Coupled GPCR Signaling Controls the Formation and Organization of Human Pluripotent Colonies]. K Nakamura, N Salomonis, K Tomoda, S Yamanaka, and BR Conklin. PLoS One. 2009; 4(11): e7780. Published online 2009 November 10. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0007780.

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20513647 AltAnalyze and DomainGraph: analyzing and visualizing exon expression data]. Emig D, Salomonis N, Baumbach J, Lengauer T, Conklin BR, Albrecht M.
Nucleic Acids Res. 2010 Jul 1;38 Suppl:W755-62. Epub 2010 May 31.

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20498046 Alternative splicing regulates mouse embryonic stem cell pluripotency and differentiation]. Salomonis N, Schlieve CR, Pereira L, Wahlquist C, Colas A, Zambon AC, Vranizan K, Spindler MJ, Pico AR, Cline MS, Clark TA, Williams A, Blume JE, Samal E, Mercola M, Merrill BJ, Conklin BR.
Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2010 Jun 8;107(23):10514-9. Epub 2010 May 24.

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19893621 Alternative splicing in the differentiation of human embryonic stem cells into cardiac precursors]. Salomonis N, Nelson B, Vranizan K, Pico AR, Hanspers K, Kuchinsky A, Ta L, Mercola M, Conklin BR. PLoS Comput Biol. 2009 Nov;5(11):e1000553. Epub 2009 Nov 6. 