#summary Feature To Implement

== Features to Implement in AltAnalyze version 2 ==

=== Core Algorithms ===

 * *Expression Import* - Add probe-level support from Ensembl, for non-splicing Affy arrays to analyze similar to RNA-Seq data. Allow users to supply their own probe-level annotation file for Affy and non-Affy arrays when probe-level expression values are provided (genomic coordinates required). This will effectively build the current exon.bed files. Include the original IDs as annotations in the final tables (or create simple translation tables).
 * *Lineage Profiler* - Add additional methods and UI control for LineageProfiler. Methods include: presence calls for all splicing-sensitive platforms (gene-level), optional exon-level analysis, possibly average tissue signature and more advanced statistics. Add documentation for building the databases (for users to add species support). Add translation support across species.
 * *Built-in BAMtoBED via C* - Integrate the BAMtoBED conversion step for creating exon.bed files into AltAnalyze. This would work by selecting a directory of directories containing TopHat results for different samples. 
 * *Paired-end support* - Pre-compute and add junction counts based on paired ends that flank junctions (assuming they flank a junction within a known range given the mate-pair distance and no known conflicts). This would be done at the BAMtoBED-level.
 * *Transcript-Level analysis* - Integrate predictions from other applications (Cufflinks, NSMAP, etc.) and develop a unique approach for AltInteract that uses unique exons to determine likely isoforms that are expressed or not in a given sample or differentially expressed.
 * *Motif over-representation * - Include ESE/ESS/ISE/ISS prediction enrichment methods.

=== Database Builds ===

 * Address issue 16
 * Add reference isoform annotations (RefSeq? UCSC? Other?)

=== Visualization ===

 * *Clustering* - Add additional clustering metrics found in Scipy (agglomerative) are less likely to crash for gene-clustering as well as hopach using PIPE or Java equivalent. Add GUI options and the option for uses to visualize group associations with the cluster. Output results for TreeView.
 * *Lineage Profiler* - For significant cell types, display regulated genes associated with lineages as a network. 
 * *SubgeneViewer* - Support for all splicing array platforms via SQLite relationship access. Assess feasibility of viewing as networks as opposed to Matplotlib.